Billie Elliot, by Melvin Burgess, based on a motion picture screenplay written by Lee
Hall.
Copyright 2005, Universal Studios Licensing, LLLP.
Adapted by Jackie Bloosey.
Chapter 1
Billie, I love to boogie.
I hate my brother.
He's stupid, but he has got some good music.
I listen to his music when he's out at work with my dad.
Well, they're not at work, not now.
They're on strike.
But they still go to the mine every day.
Nan loves the music too.
Tony and Dad leave in the morning.
When the music goes on, I make breakfast for us, and we both dance.
I can hear her in her bedroom.
She tries to dance, but she can't walk very well now.
Well, she is 80.
This morning, I made the eggs and danced to her bedroom.
Hey, Nan, breakfast, I called.
I open the door with my foot and, oh no, not again.
Her bed was empty.
I put the eggs on the kitchen table and ran out of the house.
But where was she?
She does this a lot.
She forgets things.
She forgets her name.
I looked up the street.
Nan?
Which way?
Then I had an idea.
I ran to the end of the street and up to some trees.
There she was.
She often goes there.
Why?
Who knows?
Maybe she played there when she was little.
She looked frightened.
Who are you?
She said.
It's me, Nan, Billy.
She didn't look very happy.
Then we both heard something behind us.
On the road, we saw them.
Those of them, the police, their clothes were black and they had battens.
Nan looked at me.
What are they?
She asked.
Police, Nan, it's the police.
Are they here for us?
She asked.
No, Nan, not us, I said.
Is it Jackie?
Is it Tony?
She asked.
I didn't answer.
I didn't want to know the answer.
I took my Nan's arm and we walked slowly home.
I loved to boogie.
Geared above boogie.
I'm trying to play cosmic boogie on the piano and thinking about ma'am.
It was her piano.
Ma'am's dead.
She died two years ago.
I think about her a lot.
I've got a letter from her.
She wrote it before she died.
I'm still here, Billy, she wrote.
But she isn't here.
She's dead.
Ma'am was good at the piano.
She played for all of us.
I'd like piano lessons, but they're too expensive.
We haven't got the money.
My dad's always telling us that.
We haven't got much.
Not now that there's a strike.
Billy, stop that.
It's Dad.
He's going out again with Tony in a minute.
Why do I have to stop?
He's not going to be here.
Why?
Then I say the wrong thing.
If it was ma'am, Dad comes over.
He closes the piano with a bang.
I'm not telling you again.
I go to my room.
Back to Tony's music.
CHAPTER 2
BILLY
BOYS DON'T DO BILLY
BILLY ELLIOT, this isn't a tea party.
It's a boxing lesson.
Heat him.
It's Saturday morning, and I'm at the boxing club at the social.
This morning, I'm against Greavesy, and he's bigger than me.
I have my own ideas about boxing.
It's all about your feet.
So I run and turn and jump.
I move quickly.
Greavesy just stands there.
George, the teacher, isn't happy.
Heat him.
Don't dance around.
Bang.
I'm on the floor.
Greaves is standing over me and he's smiling.
I can hear George.
Billy Elliot, get up.
You're going to do it right.
You're not going home yet.
I get up.
George pulls me to the punch bag.
Hit it.
You're poor father.
He pays for boxing lessons, and this happens.
And on.
I'm angry now.
I hit the punch bag.
I hate the punch bag.
Arms up.
And one.
And two.
And three.
And four.
Feel the music.
On the other side of the room, there's a ballet class.
Someone's playing the piano.
One and two and three and four.
As the music plays, I hit the punch bag.
One and two.
And bang and hit.
And three and four.
And hit and bang.
That's better, George says.
Stay here and get it right.
See you next week.
And he goes out.
All the other boys go too.
Right girls.
And one and two.
Debbie, don't look at me.
Look in front of you.
And three and four.
I go and watch.
It's clever.
They all dance together.
Left and two and down and two and turn and two.
I try it.
I stretch out my leg.
Yeah, easy.
Why don't you try?
It's Debbie.
She goes to my school.
Nah, I say.
Boys don't do ballet.
Legs up.
They all stretch their legs.
Mrs. Wilkinson, she's the teacher,
walks around and looks closely at each leg.
I try it.
Debbie laughs at me.
Your legs moving.
I look down.
She's right.
I'm wearing boxing shoes, I tell her.
Mrs. Wilkinson takes a cigarette from her pocket.
She smokes a lot.
OK girls.
And one and two and three and four.
I want to do it too.
I try, but it's difficult.
I start to listen to the music.
It's easier then.
Shoes off.
Mrs. in front of me.
But not me, Miss, I start to say.
But she's already walking down the room.
I take off my shoes and then she's back again.
With ballet shoes.
Here you are, she says.
You can't dance in boxing shoes.
I don't know, but then I think, why not?
So I do it.
I do ballet for the first time.
It isn't easy, but Miss is a good teacher.
We're all standing on one leg with the other leg behind.
Miss comes over.
I like the leg, she says, and then walks off.
She doesn't say much, but I'm happy.
I'm walking home later and Miss drives by.
She sees me and stops the car.
Debbie's sitting in the back.
Oh, I think.
Debbie's her daughter.
Miss is still smoking.
She looks at me.
It's 50p a lesson, you know.
Bring me the money next week.
I can't.
I'm going to boxing.
Your terrible at boxing says Debbie and laughs.
Be quiet.
Miss looks round at Debbie and then back at me.
Didn't you enjoy it today?
I don't say anything.
It's your life, she says, and off they go.
Miss was right.
I enjoyed it.
But the music was a bit boring.
I think about Fred Astaire.
My man loves him.
He can dance.
I want to dance like him.
I run and jump down the road.
Fred Astaire's music is playing in my head,
and I feel great.
Chapter 3, Billy, do the spin.
I think about ballet all the time.
One and two and up and down.
Miss's words and the music are always in my head.
But there's a problem.
I feel stupid.
And then there's my dad.
And Tony, miners don't do ballet.
Miners sons don't do ballet.
Miners don't do much when they're on strike.
The strike is going to end soon.
I heard it on the TV.
The cold weather's coming.
The strikers and their families are going to be cold and hungry.
They're going to need money.
The strike is going to be over by Christmas.
People know about the ballet at school, but I don't care.
Some of the boys laugh at me.
Hey, Billy, where are you pink ballet shoes today?
What do they know?
Debbie Wilkinson's always talking to me, too.
She and her mama posh, not like my family.
She walked home with me from school the other day.
Lots of boys do ballet, you know, she said.
Don't be stupid, who?
Who do we know?
No one here, but lots of men do it.
Are you coming next week?
She looked at me.
I'm going to boxing.
My dad says, I said, I was a bit angry.
OK.
She walked off.
She lives in the nice part of town, in a posh house
with a posh garden.
Her and her mom don't know anything about our life.
Then the music comes back in my head.
I start to dance, and I forget about my life, too.
I've got this friend, Michael.
He hates football, not like me.
We're different, but we're best friends.
I can talk to him about things.
I told him about the ballet.
I did some of the moves.
He thinks it's cool.
Leg out, arm out, one, two, I said.
Eyes to the front.
Michael laughed.
Oh, when's the next lesson?
I'm not going, I said.
Bal is for girls.
I feel stupid.
You are stupid, Michael laughed.
Anyway, it's not just for girls.
It's different for men.
Men are stronger.
He was right.
I can jump higher than the girls in the ballet class,
and I'm better than most of them.
So I went again.
On Saturday, I took my 50p from the kitchen table,
and I went to the social.
This week, the class was in a different room.
That was good because I didn't want to see George.
At the start, it was boring.
I didn't know the moves, so I stopped.
Miss came over.
What are you doing?
I don't know the moves, Miss, I said.
Follow the girls.
Go to the back and watch them.
And one, two, three.
That was OK, but it was still a bit boring.
Then Miss showed us the spin.
You spin around and around very fast, and then you stop.
You must stay in the same place.
It looks great, but it's very difficult.
You fall on the floor a lot.
We all tried it.
Do it at home, Miss said.
Try again and again.
You can do it.
At the end of the class, Miss came over to me.
So are you coming next week?
I don't know, Miss.
She looks at my ballet shoes.
Give me those, then.
I didn't want to.
I wanted to learn the spin and do it at boxing.
I wanted to see George's face.
No, it's OK, I said, and gave him a 50p.
She took it and went off.
She didn't say anything.
At home, Nan was in the kitchen.
Ballet shoes.
How lovely.
She said, don't tell Dad, I said, and ran into my room.
Luckily, Dad and Tony were out.
Dad is not going to understand about ballet shoes.
Dad isn't going to understand about any of this.
I put the ballet shoes under my bed with my boxing things.
Anyway, I'm going to go to boxing soon.
I'm going to go when I can do the spin.
MUSIC
Chapter 4, Jackie, my son Billy.
There's something funny about Billy at the moment.
He's a bit different from the other boys.
I know that.
But now, it's this spinning.
He does it everywhere.
He puts out his arms and spins around and around.
He looks a bit stupid, like a girl.
He doesn't care, not Billy.
It's a boxing move, he tells me.
Boxing.
Sometimes, I can't believe Billy is my son.
Then, there's the strike.
We started four months ago.
We're so poor now.
We haven't got money for anything.
What's going to happen?
We don't know.
Maybe they're going to close the mines.
Maybe they decided a long time ago.
So why are we doing this?
Tone is angry.
I see it in his eyes every day at the mine.
What's it going to do if there's no mine?
Some men choose to work.
We call them scabs.
The strikers stand together at the mine.
The scabs go through in buses.
There are police everywhere.
We shout at the buses.
We bang on the windows.
The scabs look frightened.
I'm not surprised.
This morning, I was next to George.
It was cold.
We waited for the scab buses.
Listen, Jackie, he said.
Forget the money.
The 50P for the boxing.
I don't do it for the money.
What?
I didn't understand.
It's Billy.
He doesn't come to boxing now.
Is it because of the money?
I started to think.
Where did Billy go every Saturday morning?
Then a bus came in and everyone started a shout.
Scab, scab, scab.
I shouted with the other men.
But I thought about other things.
Tomorrow was Saturday.
Billy's boxing day.
I had an idea.
Chapter 5.
Billy, just you and me.
I can spin now.
I can do everything, all the moves.
Miss teaches me for a lot of the lesson.
The girls aren't happy about it.
Miss, what about us?
They say.
She doesn't listen.
I'm busy.
Then it happened.
Michael often said to me, what about your dad?
What are you going to do?
Yeah, it happened.
I was in the center of the class.
Miss was next to me.
And stretch your leg, Billy.
I looked up.
And there he was by the door.
His face was red.
Miss all in two.
The music stopped.
You out now, he shouted.
Miss wanted to say something, but I stopped her.
I had enough problems.
I followed Dad out of the social.
Billy?
We were in the kitchen.
Dad didn't speak to me when we left the social.
Maybe he was too angry.
I don't know.
What's wrong with Billy?
I said, lots of people do it.
Dad's face was red again.
Lots of girls do ballet, Billy, not boys.
Boys do football or boxing.
It was true in a way.
Ballet isn't boxing.
You don't hit anyone.
It's not mining.
So my dad can't understand it.
So it's not boxing or mining.
Well, so what?
I'm not the same as my dad.
I can be different.
I like dancing, Dad.
That's all it is.
Dancing.
Why is that so bad?
Listen, forget about dancing.
You're not doing it.
Understand?
I jumped up and shouted in his face.
I hate you.
I run out of the house.
I ran and ran.
I hated my dad.
I loved dancing, and I was good at it.
I knew that.
Miss knew it too.
Suddenly, I wanted to see her.
I was in Mrs. House.
It was funny.
Me, Debbie, Miss, and her husband.
He was funny too.
It was always in the pub, Debbie said.
He always had a beer in his hand.
Oh, it's little Jean Kelly.
He said when he saw me.
Be quiet, Tom, Miss said.
You're not in the pub now?
I had dinner with them.
Later, Miss took me home in her car.
She stopped near my house and looked at me.
Billy, I'm thinking about the Royal Ballet School.
Aren't you a bit old, Miss, I said?
Not me, you.
There's an audition a new castle in two weeks.
Ballet School.
Me.
Ballet.
All day.
Every day.
Can you do Ballet as a job, then, Miss, I asked her?
Yes, if you're good enough.
But I don't know anything.
Look, she took a cigarette from her bag.
They teach you.
It's a school, and she waited a minute.
I think you're good enough.
Wow.
She didn't usually say anything nice.
What about my dad?
I can speak to him if you want.
No, please, Miss.
I knew my dad.
I can give you more lessons, she said.
Just you and me.
Don't think about the money.
I'm not doing it for the money.
I thought about it.
My dad didn't know about it, and that was wrong.
But I wanted to be a dancer.
I smiled at Miss.
OK, then.
She smiled, too.
She didn't usually smile.
6 o'clock on Monday at the social, she said.
OK.
I opened the car door.
Oh, and Billy, bring something with you.
Something that's important to you.
We must think of an idea for the audition dance.
Chapter 6, Billy, Mam's Dance.
There wasn't much time.
The audition was in two weeks.
I met Miss almost every night.
I'm going to Michael's house, I told Dad.
The first evening, I had some things with me.
My football, some T-Rex music, I liked to boogie.
It was Tony's, I didn't ask him.
Then there was the letter from my mom.
Miss started to read the letter.
Dear Billy, she stopped.
Can I read this, Billy?
Yeah, I said.
I'm still here, Billy.
You can't see me.
But I am.
I'm always with you.
Don't forget that.
And I love you.
Be true to Billy Elliot, all your life.
Miss looked away and didn't say anything.
You OK, Miss, I asked.
She's going to cry, I thought.
She was a very special person, Billy.
She said, nah, she was just my mom, I said.
What did your mom like doing, chest me?
She liked music, I said.
And then we listened to the T-Rex music.
I liked to boogie.
Gee her bug boogie.
On a Saturday night.
It's happy music, Miss said.
Dance music.
And your mom liked this.
I?
Then this is our dance, Billy.
Let's go.
We danced and jumped and ran around.
We thought of lots of new moves.
Now, think about your mom, Miss said.
She's watching you.
She's smiling and laughing.
And it worked.
I thought about mom, and I did a great spin.
I was on top of the world.
At home, things were very different.
No one was on top of the world.
There were police all over the town.
They frightened me.
Tony was never frightened.
He shouted a lot at Dad.
What's wrong with you?
This strike is our only hope.
Dad didn't answer.
He just sat there and said nothing.
I was sorry for him.
Tonight, I'm in bed, and I hear something in the kitchen.
It's Dad and Tony.
I sit up and listen.
Tony sounds very angry.
I'm not going to sit at home and do nothing, he shouts.
You think it's the end, but for me, it's the start.
Now move.
I run into the kitchen.
Tony has a button, a police button.
Where did he get that?
What's he going to do with it?
This time, Dad shouts back.
You're not going.
And you're not going to use that.
He's looking at the button.
Forget about the police.
They're doing a job.
That's all.
Try and stop me then, says Tony.
You can't do anything.
You're nothing.
Without ma'am, you're nothing.
They're by the back door.
Dad's face is white.
Suddenly, he hits Tony.
Crack.
Tony falls to the floor.
Stop it.
I shout.
Tony gets up slowly.
He doesn't say a word.
He doesn't look at Dad.
He just runs out of the door.
The button is under his arm.
Dad doesn't stop him this time.
Chapter 7, Billy Black Friday.
Billy, you're not trying.
Arm up.
What?
I'm at the social with miss.
But I can only think about last night and my dad and Tony.
Eyes to the front.
Bang.
Dad hits Tony.
Do it again, Billy.
Bang.
Tony's on the floor.
Billy, that's not good enough.
I can't.
Suddenly, I hate her.
She's standing right next to me and smoking in my face.
Do it again, she says.
No.
What?
She can't believe it.
Suddenly, I am angry about everything.
Last night, the audition, everything's going wrong.
Tony was right about one thing.
Without ma'am, we're all nothing.
And she's never coming back.
I run out of the room.
Miss follows me.
Billy, I'm sorry, she says.
I want to help you.
No, you don't.
The audition's for you.
Not for me.
That's not true, she says.
I can't stop now.
What have you got?
Nothing.
No dance school.
What are you?
You're nothing.
Don't speak to me like that.
Then she hits me across the face.
She looks very surprised.
I'm surprised, too.
I want to run.
But I can't leave.
I must dance.
And because I can't leave, I start
to cry.
She puts out her arms.
I'm sorry, Billy.
And I cry in her arms for about five minutes.
I can't stop.
Right, she says.
Is that enough?
Yes, I say.
Sorry, Miss.
Right, then, she says, let's start again.
There was something different about that Friday.
Black Friday, Dad called it.
The audition was the next morning.
I walked home after my last lesson with Miss.
I was happy.
I did my audition dance in my head.
Then I turned into our road.
And saw them all.
There were police everywhere.
Mrs. Watts lives near us.
She saw me and pulled me into her house.
Get in, Billy.
What's happening?
It's your Tony.
He's in trouble.
The police wants him.
Tony?
I didn't understand.
Where did he go at night?
What did he do?
My dad and Tony, especially Tony, hate the police.
Now, I understand.
I saw one man.
He was in front of one of the police.
The policeman hit him with his baton.
He didn't stop.
He hit him again and again.
Then I saw our Tony.
He ran up the road with the police all around him.
They were faster than him.
I ran to the door.
Tony, in here.
He didn't hear me.
It was too loud.
Everyone shouted.
Batons banged on doors.
After that, I saw about 20 police, all together.
And our Tony was under them.
Chapter 8, Tony.
Happy Christmas.
I stared in the police station that night.
There was no bed.
Where do I sleep?
I asked.
They laughed.
I was black and blue.
I hate the police.
Next morning, I sat in the courtroom.
There was a big policeman next to me.
I saw Dad and our Billy.
Dad was angry, but he didn't say anything.
It was over very quickly.
Pay the court 100 pounds, they said.
We haven't got any money.
They know that.
And our happy Christmas to you too, I shouted.
Get out of here, said the policeman.
We walked home.
Me, Dad and Billy.
I wanted to get home and go to bed.
I wanted to cry like a little boy.
But there was this woman in front of our house.
Who's that?
I asked.
She came up to Billy.
Did she know him?
Where were you, Billy?
What happened?
Billy didn't want to say anything, but she waited.
Our Tony was in court, he said quietly.
I went too.
He didn't look at her.
Our Dad looked at Billy and this woman.
Did he know her too?
What's going on, I thought?
Let's go in, Dad said.
What's all this about, I said?
I didn't want this.
Things were bad enough.
I didn't like this woman.
She was posh.
She had posh clothes.
She wasn't like us.
We went into the living room.
Billy didn't look very happy.
He's in trouble, I thought.
Then she started.
Today, Billy had an audition for the Royal Ballet School.
I know things are difficult, but...
I didn't believe my ears.
I laughed.
I looked at Billy and laughed again.
What?
Ballet, I said.
I went over to the woman and shouted in her face.
My brother does not do ballet, you stupid woman.
My brother is not going to do ballet.
Her face was white.
She was frightened, but she didn't move.
Don't shout at me, she said.
Billy's a very good dancer.
Where does he go after school every day?
You don't know, and you don't care.
I wanted to hit her.
She knew, but she didn't care.
Is Billy going to be like you?
She said to me.
No job, no hope.
Do you want that for Billy?
He's not going to be a scab, I shouted.
Look at him.
He's only twelve.
He's a child.
And you're putting stupid ideas in his head.
You learn better when you're young, said Billy.
Shut it, I shouted at him.
I turned back to her.
My brother is not running around in a stupid dress for you or anyone.
It's not for me, she said.
It's for Billy.
And then she turned to Billy.
See you Billy, she said, and walked out of the house.
Get out of our house, I shouted at her.
And don't come back.
She didn't hear.
I wanted to hit Billy then.
I wanted to hit someone.
But he was behind our dad.
Shut up.
I hate you.
He shouted at me.
I looked at him.
He's right.
He hates me, I thought.
You little.
I tried to hit him, but dad stopped me.
Billy ran out of the back door.
I looked at dad.
I'm going to the pub, I said.
I bang the door on my way out.
And if I see that posh woman again.
Chapter 9.
Billy, you're in trouble now.
That was the worst Christmas of my life, I said.
I was with Michael.
It was the day after Christmas, and we were out in the cold.
No Christmas tree.
No nothing.
And no man.
Have some of this.
He had some of his dad's beer.
I tried it.
I don't like it.
I said.
What do you want to do then?
That's Michael.
Let's go to the social.
Why?
Michael asked.
There's no one there now.
So let's go.
I said.
And we went.
Michael and I were in the boxing club.
Okay.
I said.
You're the girl.
Up and one and two.
We did some of the moves together.
It was good to dance again.
Suddenly Michael stopped.
What is it?
I looked at the door.
It was my dad.
This time I didn't want to run.
I didn't care.
I walked over to him.
I looked at him.
And then I did my audition dance.
I jumped and spun.
I wanted to show dad everything.
When I finished he didn't say anything.
He looked at me and ran out of the room.
Billy.
What did you do that for?
Said Michael.
You're in big trouble now.
He was right.
But, well, that was Billy Elliot.
Billy Elliot dances.
That was me.
Chapter 10.
Jackie.
The scab bus.
I'm almost running down that road.
Billy.
Our Billy.
He's good at something.
No.
Not good.
Fantastic.
Now, I don't know much about Bally.
It's for posh people like that Mrs. Wilkinson.
But maybe.
Just maybe.
My head spinning.
And I'm thinking about my Sarah.
My wife.
I can almost hear her.
Help the boy Jackie.
What's wrong with you?
He's our son.
She's right.
That Mrs. Wilkinson is right too.
I'm going to see her.
Now.
Her husband opens the door.
He looks at me.
In there he says.
I go into the living room.
There she is with her cigarettes.
How much has it gone to cost?
I ask her.
Happy Christmas to you too.
She says.
Then she smiles.
Sit down.
I'm okay.
I don't want to stay for long.
How much?
For the audition.
The cost of the bus to London.
And a hotel for the night.
I can help.
I don't want your money.
I say.
How good is he?
She smokes her cigarette and looks at me.
He's the best Mr. Elliot.
Thanks.
I leave.
I need time.
I must think.
What can I do?
But I already know the answer.
It's six o'clock in the morning.
And I'm waiting for the bus with the other men.
It's the scab bus.
I'm doing it for Billy.
I must help him.
He's my son.
I didn't sleep last night.
I'm doing it for one week.
One week's money for our Billy's audition.
Our Tony doesn't know.
No one knows yet.
Only the other scabs.
The bus comes and we all get on.
No one speaks as we drive there.
When we arrive, I can hear the men.
Scab, scab, scab, they shout.
I know the words.
I shouted them last week.
We drive through the men.
Bang, bang, bang.
They bang on the bus windows.
The police try to stop them.
The bus stops.
Their faces are so close.
I'm very frightened now.
I look around me.
Some of the scabs put their hands over their faces.
Not me.
I don't care.
I look out of the window and then I see him.
It's Tony.
He's looking back at me.
He can't believe his eyes.
I don't know what to do.
The bus moves on.
Dad!
What are you doing?
I'm off the bus.
I'm going to go into the mine.
And there he is.
Our Tony.
He's calling to me.
He's like a little boy again.
I go over to him.
I'm sorry, son.
It's for Billy.
I say.
And then I start to cry.
You can't go back, Dad.
Not now.
Tony looks at me.
And he's crying too.
There's another way, Dad.
We can help Billy.
Please.
So I didn't go into the mine.
I went home without Tony.
I told him all about Billy in the ballet.
We're going to find that money, Dad, he said.
Billy's going to the audition.
Tony had to be strong.
I wasn't.
Not now.
Chapter 11.
Billy.
A stupid dream.
I'm on a bus to London with me, Dad.
I can't believe it.
Wasn't it all a stupid dream?
Me and the Royal Ballet School.
But people in the town helped with the money.
We had a dance at the social.
And then there were some of my mom's things.
I'm going to sell them, Dad said one morning.
I don't want to think about that.
I hated the Royal Ballet School when I saw it.
It was so big and posh.
How much is this going to cost, Dad said?
I changed into my dance clothes.
There were other boys there.
They were posh too.
They didn't understand my English.
Sorry, what did you say?
Oh, shut it.
Then there was the audition.
There were five people from the Royal Ballet School there.
They sat behind a long table.
They didn't like me.
Do you have some music, Billy?
I gave it to them.
T-Rex.
It wasn't right for that place.
All that now.
I didn't dance.
I didn't move.
I just looked at them.
Then I heard Miss in my ear.
Billy, you're not trying.
Go on.
Just do it.
So I did it.
Badly.
When I finished, nobody said anything.
They wrote some things down.
Then one of them said,
Thank you, Billy.
You can go now.
I almost ran out of there.
All that work.
All that money.
For nothing.
I just wanted to go home.
But it wasn't over.
They called me and Dad into the audition room again.
We sat in front of that long table.
Now, Billy, we have some questions for you.
One of them said,
Why do you like ballet?
I didn't answer.
I wasn't right for this place.
Don't know, I said.
Well, what do you like about dancing?
Dad looked at me.
Um, everything.
He dances all the time, my Dad said.
Yes, we've got a letter from Mrs Wilkinson here.
I knew Mr Elliot.
Did you like ballet?
Um, well, I don't know much about it, Dad said.
Well, that was true.
And that was about it.
We got up and walked to the door.
One more thing, Billy.
Said a very posh woman.
How do you feel when you dance?
I thought for a minute.
I feel good.
I started.
When I dance, I forget the world.
And the strike.
And everything.
There's fire in my body.
It's like...
It's like flying.
That sounded stupid, I thought.
Chapter 12.
Jackie.
The letter.
Poor Billy.
When we got home, he went to bed.
He didn't want any dinner.
He didn't want to talk.
And that place.
It was a different world.
All those rich boys.
Special dancing lessons.
Big houses.
Posh cars.
It wasn't off.
But the royal ballet people.
Maybe they weren't so bad.
When we left the audition room, one of the teachers said,
Good luck with the strike, Mr. Elliot.
We waited one week.
Two weeks.
Then the letter arrived.
Billy was at school.
It was a long day.
Billy came home at four o'clock.
We were all there.
Billy took the letter.
No one said anything.
He went into his nuns' room and closed the door.
Then.
Nothing.
He didn't come out.
In the end, we went in there.
I opened the door.
Billy started to cry.
I did it.
He said quietly.
I'm in.
Yes!
I ran up the road to the social.
He did it.
Our Billy.
I wanted to tell everyone.
I ran into the social.
He's in.
He did it.
Nobody answered.
It's over, Jackie.
We're going back.
What?
The strike's over.
We're going back to work on Monday.
So that was it.
The mind didn't stay open very long after that.
That was ten years ago now.
It was the end for me.
But life is only just starting for Billy.
And that's something.
Epilogue.
Jackie.
Our Billy.
Well, London doesn't change.
It's still big.
It's still expensive.
But we didn't pay for our ballet tickets.
I'm sitting here without Tony.
It's funny to see your name in big letters.
There.
On the front of the Royal Opera House.
The Royal Ballet.
Billy Elliot.
Our Billy.
Then the music starts.
And there he is.
He runs on and jumps.
What a jump!
No one does it like Billy.
He spins and spins.
Everyone's watching.
He's the best.
And he's smiling all the time.
He's smiling at us.
So I stand up and I shout,
Billy, Billy Elliot.
Tony's standing with me.
Our Billy, his shouts.
And other people stand up too.
And you know,
I'm never going to forget this.
It's the best time of my life.
MUSIC